h1. Rda

h2. Description

Rda(Rails Development Assist) is combined with lots of useful rake tasks which can help you to setup your development enviroments and tools more quickly.

h2. Features

* Setup RVM for your rails application
* Deploy your rails application to Nginx (rails_env is set to development by default)
* Release your rails application

h2. Usage

h3. Installation

<code>gem install rda</code>

Or simply add rda to the Gemfile

<code>gem 'rda'</code>

h3. Configuration

For configuring rda, you need to create an initializer for rda:

<pre>
<code>
# config/initializers/rda.rb
if Rails.env == 'development'
  Rda.configure do
    nginx_conf_paths ['/etc/nginx', '/opt/nginx/conf', '/usr/local/nginx/conf']
  end
end
</code>
</pre>

h3. Setup RVM

<code>rake rda:rvm:setup</code>

First of all, this task will check whether the RVM is installed. If RVM is installed, it will create a .rvmrc for the application with the content which looks like:

<pre>
<code>
if [[ -s "/path/to/rvm/environments/ruby-1.9.3-p0@app_name" ]]; then
  . "/path/to/rvm/environments/ruby-1.9.3-p0@app_name"
else
  rvm use ruby-1.9.3-p0@app_name --create
fi
</code>
</pre>

If RVM is not installed this task will do nothing but exit.

h3. Discard RVM settings

<code>rake rda:rvm:discard</code>

This task removes the .rvmrc from your rails application.

h3. Setup Nginx

<code>rake rda:nginx:setup</code>

First this task will try to find the config files of Nginx which you have installed from the following paths:

* /etc/nginx
* /usr/local/nginx/conf
* /opt/nginx/conf

You can change the default searching paths by:

<pre>
<code>
Rda.configure { nginx_conf_paths ['/path/to/nginx/conf'] }
</code>
</pre>

Please make sure that you have the write permission of the directory you choosed, or you can run:

<code>sudo rake rda:nginx:setup</code>

If there are more than one paths found, it will give you a choice to decide which one will be used. After choosing a proper path, it will try to create two directories sites-available and sites-enabled to save the configs of rails applications.

* sites-available saves the configs of the rails applications.
* sites-enabled saves the link to the rails applications.

Next it will set Nginx to include the configs under sites-enabled. It means that only the applications under sites-enabled will be loaded. And than it will create a config file for your application under sites-available and create a link to the config file under sites-enabled. After all, it will create a local hostname for your application in /etc/hosts.

h3. Discard Nginx settings

<pre>
<code>
rake rda:nginx:discard # Or

sudo rake rda:nginx:discard # Or

rvmsudo rake rda:nginx:discard # Using RVM
</code>
</pre>

This task will clean up all the things created or configured by rda:nginx:setup.

h3. Restart application

<code> rake rda:app:restart</code>

This task touches tmp/restart.txt to restart your rails application, For detail, please visit "http://bit.ly/ztKA07":http://bit.ly/ztKA07

h3. Release your rails application(not yet)

<code> rake rda:app:release</code>

h2. License

This project rocks and uses MIT-LICENSE.
